# 口罩新政罗生门：是中国的“霸王条款”，还是被逼无奈？

**来源**: Tess外贸Club | **发布时间**: 2020-04-28
**原文链接**: https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/YPxiTIlxWZZGbJO1PfWxbQ
**文章序号**: 759

---

## 摘要



---

- 创建时间: 2026-03-04 20:31

---

## 正文

China New policy of masks exporting: Is it mask hegemony? 原创 TESSR Tess外贸Club 在小说阅读器中沉浸阅读 文 | Tess本文中文版本请查看4月26日发文：口罩新政罗生门：是中国的“霸王条款”，还是被逼无奈？（单击可看）如果再有外国人骂中国制造品质低下，中国政府趁火打劫，可以把这篇文章甩给他，让他闭嘴。First of all, this is not an article that encourages populism.In fact, I'm disgusted with articles that are indiscriminate and have no argument or logic. I was engaged in international business 14 years ago, and I know that politics and economy have always been closely linked, It is absurd to talk about economy without politics or economy without politics.The Corvid-19 epidemics nearly come to the end in China, While the Europe and the United States have gradually slipped into the abyss.When Corvid-19 epidemics outbreak in the world, China has not banned or restricted the export of such anti-epidemic materials as masks, disinfectants and protective clothing.But when the epidemic broke out in China, some countries banned or restricted the anti-epideic materials. With the massive export of China's epidemic prevention materials,European and American buyers did not thank China, on the contrary, However, they have no basis to slander and accuse Chinese products, which have quality problems. First of all,the Netherlands claimed that a large number of masks imported from China were unqualified,Then, Britain and France announced that they would review their relations with China.Recently, the Pew Research Center conducted a poll of 1000 American adults,According to the survey results, about 66% of the respondents have negative views on China. Days ago, I forwarded an article about how foreign buyers think of Chinese mask suppliers.In this article, the author mentioned that because of the epidemic, buyers from many countries in the world have to find China to buy masks, even if the price is more expensive, they have to buy them. Despite the deal is conducted, he could feel the deep hatred from the buyers. Recently, I can feel this feeling in the process of dealing with some old customers in Europe and America.Most of them are my regular customers and have a good personal relationship with me. However, when it comes to the import and export of masks, I can clearly feel their dissatisfaction and resentment. The main complaints are that the masks in China are hard to buy, expensive and of poor quality.They accuse the Chinese government of "Mask hegemony" which makes it more and more difficult for them to import masks from China, with higher and higher thresholds and more and more procedures.It is obvious that China and the whole western world have fallen into a Rashomon on the issue of mask trade.Each side speaks its own words, formulates its own policies, and guides the public opinion..At the height of the community of shared future of mankind, this situation is obviously not conducive to the overall prevention and control of the global epidemic, and will aggravate the overall confrontation between China and west world.Whether in the short term or in the long term, this situation is not good for international business development. China and the West World stick to their own views. So what is the truth?Who is lying,who is concealing, who is making contribution, who is creating opposition. In order to understand this series of problems, we need to start from the source, analyze them one by one. 01Who should be responsible for the quality of masks?Before the epidemic, there was no special threshold for the circulation of masks in the world.In addition to the normal inspection and certification, the sale of masks is completely in accordance with the market rules and free trade.On March 28, several Dutch media reported that the Dutch government had imported unqualified masks from China, and those unqualified masks triggered a public outcry against China.On April 2, China's foreign ministry publicly responded that the batch of masks were originally exported according to civil standards and should not be sent to hospitals. In international trade, Customs data of different countries are not interconnected, This gives the importer or exporter some opportunities to cheat the customs.For example: Some buyers buy civil-used masks in China, Chinese suppliers make Custom Declare according to the civil-used masks.Because the customs data are interconnected,The buyer's Customs don't know these masks type, and the buyer can make Custom Clearance in accordance with madecial type. By changing the type of mask, importers can make a huge profit. But when hospitals find that masks do not meet the application standards, they will only blame Chinese suppliers for providing unqualified products.If the responsibility is to be investigated, the exporter and the importer may have problem, China Custom is responsible for any product problems.02Who will set the quality standard for masks?Every sovereign country has the right to set its own market access standards.China can make it, the EU can book it, and the US can make it.For example, in the European Union, if it is a civil mask, it should follow CE-PE standards, if it is a medical mask, it should also follow CE-MDD/CE-MDR standard. Due to the epidemics'suddeness and seriousness, there is a huge need gap for the mask in a short time.At this time, the general law of market economy will not work.No matter how much money you can't buy masks, buyers have only two choices, to lower their standards or give up purchasing. In this case, both China's CDC and the U.S. FDA, have issued emergency administrative licenses successively, granting temporary recognition to other countries' standards, so as to expand the scope of supply.Regarding the batch of masks exported from China to Netherlands, Since it is possible to make Custom Clearance on the name of medical masks in Netherland, It means that the Chinese supplier must have provided the CE-MDD/CE-MDR certificate, otherwise, these masks are not allowed to enter Netherland.As for the reason why these masks are found out of medical standards, there may be different possibilities.For example, the importer intentionally defrauded Dutch Customs, The exporter's certificate is false, or the China factory has passed the certification test , the batch of products are not produced according to the corresponding standards.Anyway, EU established CE system, they should formulate its own supplementary standards,customs clearance process and regulatory measures.If unqualified masks are allowed to enter the market due to defects in EU process design, imperfect customs clearance process, loopholes in regulatory measures and other reasons, then Dutch Customs, the Dutch government and the European Commission should reflect together on how to avoid such a situation in the future, rather than blindly blame China.03Is the trade representative system reasonable?The European Union has implemented a special system for the import of masks, which is the sole representative system of manufacturers.In short, when a mask factory in a non EU country wants to export masks to the EU, it must set up a trade representative entity within the EU. This trade representative is the first person responsible for all batches of masks sold by the factory to European countries. This trade representative is responsible for all batches of masks and problems in any country.We can quell this measure from three aspects. A. The EU has the right to do so.There is no doubt that the EU has the right to set norms and standards for the EU market. As for how to set them and whether they are reasonable, it is another issue.B. The trade representative system is essentially a lazy policy.The most effective way to control the quality of imported goods is sampling inspection, inspection and quarantine. To find out a certain batch of 1 million masks quality condition, only 100 random tests are needed, and then according to the 100 test reports, the mathematical probability can be calculated.Human beings have entered the 21st century, and the European Union still use a method, which has been abandoned by China more than 2000 years ago.,to solve the problem of commodity and product quality .we have to say that this is a manifestation of laziness. The starting point of this systerm is not to prevent the occurrence of quality problems but to think about how to find out a responsible person after accident happend. C. This system does more harm than good.At present, the overall situation in the international market is that the supply of masks is in short supply, while China has 50% of the global mask production capacity. The China-made masks are not only sold by the European Union. In addition to many other countries and regions,, where is also a shortage of masks,, and buyers from those regions also need purchase from China. On the surface, the trade representative implements the responsible person, but in fact, it greatly increases the transaction cost of the buyer and the seller, and greatly tests the trust of both parties.Few Chinese factories have authorized one customer exclusively in the European Union, and few European companies can sell all the goods of one factory. Under the current situation, this approach will only hinder the masks made in other countries from entering the European Union market, which is far greater than that of all the countries in the European Union and its citizens.04Does China have a mask hegemony?Last week, China's Ministry of Commerce issued a new policy to implement a statement signed by both sides on the export of masks.That is to say, Chinese sellers and foreign buyers are required to sign a statement to declare that, both of them agree the quality of this batch of masks. Then some countries criticize China for its mask hegemony.Is it true?First of all, on the issue of masks, China did a great job.Even in the most difficult times, China has only opened up some import standards, and has never imposed restrictions or quotas on the export of masks.When the epidemic subsided and social production gradually recovered, China offered great help to the countries which need help.Secondly. China vgovernment didn't do the mmask hegemony.The Chinese government has not translated the production, import and export of masks in all aspects of their production and circulation. They are basically operated in accordance with the market economy system and norms. There are no restrictions on exports or export quotas. In a word, the Chinese government has no blockade, no restriction, no household registration, no additional political conditions and no means of coercion on the issue of masks, so there is no mask hegemony involved..Thirdly，China is a responsible and grateful country.In some countries where the epidemic is very serious, the Chinese government has offered assistance and has not attached any political conditions.For those countries that have helped China, the China government has given 10 times and 100 times return.Compared with the United States, as well as EU countries, who were robbing each other's medical supplies in the difficult time , China has set a good example for them.05Is there a double standard in western countries?In fact, western countries have been implementing Double standard policy,Even multi standard policy. Western countries have criticized China's autocracy and insufficient market opening all the year round. At one time, the western countries even united and did not recognize China's market economy status. When the pidemic.outbreak came, China government completely handed over masks to the free market, reducing supervision as much as possible.Western countries bought fake and inferior products in the free market, and began to blame China for all this, to smear and splash dirty water on "made in China". Regardless of the fact that it is EU customs approved the defective products enter into their market. When the Chinese government began to intervene by administrative means , these western countries criticize China's "mask hegemony" and accuse China of engaging in "mask diplomacy".No matter what China government does or how it does it, it is a mistake in their eyes. It can only be said that their logic are too absurd. 06How to resolve the so-called "hidden hatred"?My view on this issue is "no need to resolve"."Hate" is just a kind of emotion, but human emotion is changeable.This means with the time past, especially in the past of the epidemic, they may realize that they should not hate China or the Chinese at all. , they can only hate some bad Chinese businessesmen. But which country has no bad merchants?Is Germany a liar who doesn't collect money and doesn't deliver goods? Or is there no product with high quality and price in the UK? But people won't going to deny or hate the 2 countries just because of some bad businessmen. In addition, and the most importantly, many of the advantages of made in China are irreplaceable. Everyone has the right to hate, but they should to face the hate calmly. Today, when these Westerners can't buy masks with money, do they reflect on their practice of "Paris Coordinating Committee"? A Wassenaar agreement,make China face out of many technology. When Netherlands put forward such requirements for our masks, should the same standards be applied to the lithography machine exported to China? Even if we want to resolve this hatred in the future, we must build on mutual respect and understanding.if only Westerners "have the right" to hate, but do not care about the feelings of the Chinese , why do we care about this person's feelings? To be honest, the frequent changes and adjustments in the export policy of epidemic prevention materials over the past month have really made it difficult for both the buyer and the seller to adapt. But Karl Marx tells us that the economics base determines the superstructure, and it is also affected by the superstructure. Today, China's relations with the whole western world are based on decades of economic and trade relations since the reform and opening up. At the same time, this relationship has always been influenced by the international political pattern. 转发和点赞，就是对本文观点的认可哈！-END--------------------PS：感谢这个语音鼠标，它让我翻译这么长的一篇文章不再费劲。如果客户不说英文，也可以翻译成其他27种语言：法语、德语、西语、阿拉伯语、汉语、日语等，这些语言基本可以满足外贸业务员的语言需求了。复杂语和长句法翻译演示 买鼠标Tess Cheers↓微店↓《一个人的外贸江湖》1-100章免费阅读章节：累得吐了一口老血（长按下方二维码可读） 书预定微信买书↓↓↓

---

*全文完*